src/content/post/life-blog/137-templates-for-trello-workflow.mdx, before:

---
title: Templates for Trello Workflow
excerpt: A set of thinking tools and text snippets I use to bring clarity at every stage of my workflow — from arranging ideas to asserting outcomes.
slug: /life-blog/templates-for-trello-workflow/
image: /images/life-blog/137-templates-for-trello-workflow/templates-for-trello-workflow-raycast-snippet.png
tags:
    - non-technical
    - draft
publishDate: 2025-08-07T10:47:11.018869
gpt: chatgpt url
trello: ""
seo_keywords: 
seo_descriptions: 
---

In a previous post, I presented how I use Trello. The post covered a common column structure and common workflows.

This post expands on that and covers some text snippets that I use.

## Why Templates?

While working I found, that the more clarity that I have the better the cards move.

“Finding Clarity” is a big term and I would not know if I found clarity until I complete the task.

So, I thought I needed thinking frameworks that can get me closer to clarity.

And that’s when I started creating and using these templates. Each template has had a unique shift in mindset that helps at that particular stage.

In the end, I have more clarity of what to do in each stage of my 3 step workflow (arrange, act, assert)

## Templates / Mental Models

These are arranged according to most usefulness and not according to sequence they are used.

1. Small Step - ss
2. Grand Goal - gg
3. Conventional Comment - cc
4. Relaxed Reflection - rr
5. Easy Entry - ee
6. Flow Finder - ff

(The repeated characters like ss above are the keyboard shortcut I have setup in Raycast).

### Small Steps - ss

Small steps are what I call my checklist items.

They are intentionally written in a way that they are a small step.

each small step has the following syntax.

```
verb: {what} - {context in form of with/if/where/in}
```

Example

```
write: notes on “Claude Code: Beginner’s Guide” - in Day One app in 30m
```

Before small step, my tasks would be vague, after small step, my tasks are much more exact.

### Grand Goal (gg)

I sometimes forget and say good goal. but means the same thing. Grand Goal is what I call each card in my Trello setup.

Each card is a new undertaking and therefore is grand.

The grand is suppose to emphase the reason behind why I am doing a task.

While small steps are clear action, they are not focused on the why. Grand goals are focused on the why.

Format

```
{value/outcome} → {verb}: {what} - {context in form of with/if/where/in}
```

or you could think of as starting with value followed by the step format

```
{value/outcome} → {step format}
```

Eg:

```
30%+ productivity → learning: VIM motions - by watching YouTube videos
```

Now I know exactly why I am doing something.

The format emphasises focus on value/outcome rather than the specific task.

I found that when I wrote the task before value/outcome, I would do tasks for wrong reason and make tasks less flexible. but by having value/why focus early I can adapt my approach and even deprioritize cards early if needed.

### Conventional Comment cc

This is what started the journey of templatizing all stuff.

Conventional comments is a common format for comments during code review which is aimed and making writing comments easier.

```
{type}: {comment}
```

Example:

```
progress: talk to Steve Jobs. Found out that he is working on a similar AI product
```

Note: I don't comment on my cards if there is no needed.

### Relaxed Reflection

Relaxed Reflection is what I use during the Debrief/assert stage.

I want to gather as much insights from what I did and use it the next time.

```
## Relaxed Reflections

### Observations
{argument name="Liked - Learned - Lacked - Longed For"}

### Recall Wastes
{argument name="Defects - OverProduction - Waiting - UnusedTalent - Transportation - Inventory - Motion - ExtraProcessing"}

### Next Time
- {cursor}
```

### Easy Entry ee

```
## Getting In

{argument name="Getting In (Intention / Context or Constraint / Outcome Sketch)"}

## Done When

{argument name="Done When (Success Condition / Testable Trigger /  Observable Output / Point of Closure)"}
```

### Flow Finder

```
## Flow Finding

### Objective

#### I want to

#### But I am not doing this because

### Diagnosis

#### Tiredness
#### Anxiety
#### Confusion
#### Boredom
#### Distraction
#### Treatment
```

## Conclusion

There are more microsteps I do in my work.

For example, I want to work on tasks iteratively. And the way I do it is by using 2 thinking frameworks which I call FUEL 🚀 &  QUAK 🦆.

Also, I use a script that pulls in Trello data in an arranged format so that I work on the most important task first.

I’ll share this in next post.

Commit message:

improved src/content/post/life-blog/137-templates-for-trello-workflow.mdx

src/content/post/life-blog/137-templates-for-trello-workflow.mdx, after:

---
title: Templates for Trello Workflow
excerpt: A set of thinking tools and text snippets I use to bring clarity at every stage of my workflow — from arranging ideas to asserting outcomes.
slug: /life-blog/templates-for-trello-workflow/
image: /images/life-blog/137-templates-for-trello-workflow/templates-for-trello-workflow-raycast-snippet.png
tags:
    - non-technical
    - draft
publishDate: 2025-08-07T10:47:11.018869
gpt: chatgpt url
trello: ""
seo_keywords: 
seo_descriptions: 
---

My [previous post](/life-blog/how-i-use-trello/) presented my Trello board structure and card structure. This post will describe the template for text content inside those cards.

## Why Templates?

While working I found, that the more clarity that I have the better the cards move.

“Finding Clarity” is a big term and I would not know if I found clarity until I complete the task.

So, I thought I needed thinking frameworks that can get me closer to clarity.

And that’s when I started creating and using these templates. Each template has had a unique shift in mindset that helps at that particular stage.

In the end, I have more clarity of what to do in each stage of my 3 step workflow (arrange, act, assert)

## Templates / Mental Models

These are arranged according to most usefulness and not according to sequence they are used.

1. Small Step - ss
2. Grand Goal - gg
3. Conventional Comment - cc
4. Relaxed Reflection - rr
5. Easy Entry - ee
6. Flow Finder - ff

(The repeated characters like ss above are the keyboard shortcut I have setup in Raycast).

### Small Steps - ss

Small steps are what I call my checklist items.

They are intentionally written in a way that they are a small step.

each small step has the following syntax.

```
verb: {what} - {context in form of with/if/where/in}
```

Example

```
write: notes on “Claude Code: Beginner’s Guide” - in Day One app in 30m
```

Before small step, my tasks would be vague, after small step, my tasks are much more exact.

### Grand Goal (gg)

Grand Goal is what I call each card in my Trello setup. Each card is a new undertaking and therefore is grand.

The grand is suppose to emphase the reason behind why I am doing a task.

While small steps are clear action, they are not focused on the why. Grand goals are focused on the why.

Format

```
{value/outcome} → {verb}: {what} - {context in form of with/if/where/in}
```

or you could think of as starting with value followed by the step format

```
{value/outcome} → {step format}
```

Eg:

```
30%+ productivity → learning: VIM motions - by watching YouTube videos
```

Now I know exactly why I am doing something.

The format emphasises focus on value/outcome rather than the specific task.

I found that when I wrote the task before value/outcome, I would do tasks for wrong reason and make tasks less flexible. but by having value/why focus early I can adapt my approach and even deprioritize cards early if needed.

### Conventional Comment cc

This is what started the journey of templatizing all stuff.

Conventional comments is a common format for comments during code review which is aimed and making writing comments easier.

```
{type}: {comment}
```

Example:

```
progress: talk to Steve Jobs. Found out that he is working on a similar AI product
```

Note: I don't comment on my cards if there is no needed.

### Relaxed Reflection

Relaxed Reflection is what I use during the Debrief/assert stage.

I want to gather as much insights from what I did and use it the next time.

```
## Relaxed Reflections

### Observations
{argument name="Liked - Learned - Lacked - Longed For"}

### Recall Wastes
{argument name="Defects - OverProduction - Waiting - UnusedTalent - Transportation - Inventory - Motion - ExtraProcessing"}

### Next Time
- {cursor}
```

### Easy Entry ee

This is the description of a card. This expands on why and limits the scope of the task.

```
## Getting In

{argument name="Getting In (Intention / Context or Constraint / Outcome Sketch)"}

## Done When

{argument name="Done When (Success Condition / Testable Trigger /  Observable Output / Point of Closure)"}
```

### Flow Finder ff

In case a card hasn't been moving for a while. I use this template in comment to figure out why it hasn't been moving. 

I must have used this 3-4 times.

```
## Flow Finding

### Objective

#### I want to

#### But I am not doing this because

### Diagnosis

#### Tiredness
#### Anxiety
#### Confusion
#### Boredom
#### Distraction
#### Treatment
```

## Conclusion

The above templates help me be productive with my work. They help clarity, what to do (grand goal, small step), why to do (grand goal, easy entry), and how to do it (small steps). And in between help document progress (conventional comments), find blockers (flow finder) and increase learning from each card (relaxed reflections).

I suggest you use the above templates or create your own templates to suit your working style. You can use a tool like [Raycast](https://www.raycast.com) or some other text expander that can help you fill this template easily. 

Since, I have implemented these template I have found a rough 40% increase in productive.

In an upcoming blogpost, I will talk about more Trello systems. If you have an RSS feed do subscribe. Thank you for reading so far!
